okay we're gonna break out of that take
you straight to number ten for the daily
coronavirus briefing today by Sir Peter
handy his chair of Network Rail Peter
was also Commissioner of Transport for
London Olympics and is the person that I
asked to help with the restart of our
transport network let me start by
updating you on the latest information
from the government's cobra data file
and can I turn to the first slide please
the slide show data on the use of
different types of transport and this
graph showed these graphs shows
significant Falls in the use of public
transport rail buses the tube in London
and even before the lockdown was
introduced on the 23rd of March this is
welcome it shows the public's responded
positively to our request to avoid
public transport wherever possible the
use of Motor Vehicles fell substantially
initially and has since risen steadily
though not back to the level seen mid
March again this is what we would expect
as we have introduced some easements to
the lockdown and encourage people to
return to work one form of transport
which has seen a significant increase is
cycling it's great to see so many people
switching to clean green mode of
transport with significant public health
benefits and it's very encouraging to
see next slide please
the number of tests carried out or
posted out in the UK has risen past the
five million mark for the first time
that's five million 5565 this includes a
record two hundred and twenty thousand
and fifty seven tests carried out or
posted out yesterday a new total the new
high total two hundred and eighty 1661
people have tested positive that's an
increase of one thousand eight hundred
and five cases since yesterday the graph
shows a steady steadily falling number
of identified cases on a seven day
rolling average despite that increase in
testing third slide please this slide
shows the latest data
from hospitals 505 people were admitted
to hospital with coronavirus in england
on 2nd of june are marginally from the
475 a week ago but down from the peak of
3121 on the 2nd of april 604 coronavirus
patients are in mechanical ventilation
beds in the UK down from 783 a week ago
and down from a peak of 3301
on the 12th of April 4th slide please
this slide shows what's happening in
hospitals across the country there are
now seven thousand three hundred and
twelve people in hospital with
coronavirus in the UK down 15% from 8558
a week ago and down from a peak of 20000
699 on the 12th of April as the graph
shows while there is some variation most
nations and regions in the UK are
broadly following a similar pattern and
last slide please
this slide shows the daily figures for
those who have sadly lost their lives
after testing positive for coronavirus
across all settings the total number of
deaths now stands at 39 thousand nine
hundred and four that's an increase for
one hundred and seventy-six fatalities
since yesterday and that's the lowest
working weekday level of fatalities were
measured by a seven-day rolling average
the daily number of deaths currently
stands at 241 down from a peak of 943 on
the 14th of April these figures are a
reminder that kovat 19 still represents
a very real threat that the fight still
goes on to defeat it and there are
tragically still too many people across
the country who are losing loved ones
our thoughts are with the board as we
made clear in recent weeks our roads
recovery must be carefully and caught
ously managed most importantly we must
avoid a second inspect in infection
spiked this careful deliberate approach
has been central to the restart of
public transport in advance of previous
easing of the lockdown we've ensured
transport availability was increased to
allow for adequate social distancing in
addition we've also announced measures
to help people choose other forms of
transport for example with a record two
billion pounds invested in cycling and
walking as well as the acceleration of a
scooter trials brought forward to the
end of this month meticulous planning
alongside the considerable effort of
passengers avoiding public transport has
worked well so far there's been an
absence of crowding even as passenger
numbers have picked up partly thanks to
the work that's appeared Hindi has been
doing but these challenges are about to
increase we expect conditions permitting
that the next easing of the restrictions
will occur on Monday the 15th of June
non-essential shops will reopen and some
children will return to secondary school
that means there'll be more pressure on
our public transport to help meet that
demand we're ramping up services on
buses trams and trains with substantial
government funding but we still need to
do more so today I want to highlight the
measures that will help take to keep us
safe and reduce the risk of coronavirus
particularly on public transport there
are three points I'd like to highlight
first let me reiterate and this is
really important if you can work from
home you should continue to do so if you
cannot work from home you should avoid
transport wherever possible and if you
must use public transport you should
follow guidance including avoiding the
rush-hour it
self second I can announce that as of
Monday the 15th of June face coverings
will become mandatory on public
transport
that doesn't mean surgical masks which
we must keep for clinical settings it
means the kind of face covering you can
easily make at home
they'll be exemptions to these rules for
very young children for disabled people
and those were breathing difficulties
but broadly as we come through this
phase we're doing what many other
countries have asked transport users to
do and as passenger numbers increase and
we expect this trend to continue we need
to ensure every precaution is taken on
buses trains aircraft and on ferries
with more people using transport the
evidence suggests the wearing face
coverings offers some albeit limited
protection against the spread of the
virus the face covering helps protect
our fellow passengers it's something
that we can each do to help each other
and whilst it also remains true the
measures like maintaining social
distancing washing your hands remain the
most critical things to do we also know
on public transport keeping two meters
apart is not always possible at all
times
indeed the guidance explicitly
recognizes this fact so when more people
return to the network from the 15th of
June onwards we will they will be
required to wear face coverings on
transport network will make these rule
changes under the national rail
conditions of travel and the public
service vehicle regulations for buses
this will mean that you can be refused
travel if you don't comply and you could
be fined alongside transport operators
this will be enforced by the British
Transport Police if necessary but I
expect the vast majority of people where
need to be forced into this because
wearing a face covering helps protect
others and most people simply want to
help defeat this disease
of course frontline staff those in
contact with passengers doing such an
important job at this crucial
time we'll also need to wear face
coverings in the coming days the
government will work with the unions
who've been supportive for which I'm
very grateful transport operators and
the police to ensure that they have the
supplies they need to be safe and to
provide reassurance to the public
these measures apply in England but
we're working with the devolved
administration's ahead of implementation
third to ease pressure on public
transport I want to update you on the
measures we are taking to boost
alternative ways to travel now the
vehicle showrooms opening again there's
a growing range of electric cars mopeds
motorbikes on sale and as our economy
gets moving their popularity will it
continue to increase later this month
we'll be introducing the fix your bike
voucher worth 50 quid we'll have
hundreds of thousands of more Road
worthy bikes on the road as a result of
this program and then there's the cycle
to work scheme which enables employees
to buy a tax-free bike an effective
saving at 25 to 39 percent and that
scheme has been extended to cover ebikes
as well meaning the cyclists can cover
longer distances by getting assistance
on those uphill stretches and this is a
great time to start using them as we
redesign our landscape to cope with
millions more cyclists and pedestrians
in the months ahead the evidences the
commuters are already responding despite
fewer people travelling over the past
few weeks during this crisis we've
actually seen around 100 percent
increase in weekday cycling and a
weekends that increase has been up to
200% compared to the pre kovat 19 levels
we want to use this recovery to
permanently change the way we travel
with huge levels of investment who are
bringing forward green transport
improvements that otherwise would have
taken years or decades to achieve and in
the short term whilst there's still a
threat from the virus folk help keep
millions of people avoiding public
transport journeys
and in the longer term their help
transform our country into a lower
carbon cleaner and greener place to live
our history shows us how quickly we can
adapt as a nation just as we did 200
years ago when Britain invented the
railway and just as we did in the 20th
century when we embrace the motorcar and
then in the 1950s when we launched the
first passenger jet airliner
coincidentally designed and built in my
Hatfield constituency each of these
transport revolutions was triggered by a
unique alignment of people and events
brilliant engineers and entrepreneurs
cutting-edge new technologies supported
governments and the needs of citizens
combining to bring about change and now
we need now now we stand on the verge of
a new transport revolution this time not
limited to one particular means of
travel but rather to all forms of
transport a green transport revolution
which will help us rebuild a stronger
more prosperous Britain as well as a
cleaner and healthier one - I'd like to
now turn to questions and we're going to
start with questions from the public
Alex from Canterbury acts how are
renters going to be protected during
coronavirus once the ban on evictions
runs out Alex thanks very much indeed
it's been clearly for people in lots of
different situations but I think
particularly people renting a very very
uncertain period of time and there's
been extraordinary measures being put in
place
- and try to sort of balance the the
relationship between renters and of
course landlords it is important
actually that we help people get back to
work
we had record low unemployment before
this crisis started we try to protect
those jobs and Alex and everybody else
we want help you to get back into those
into your jobs and therefore have the
money available to pay your rent and
that will be of course the primary thing
but of course some of the schemes
including the furlough scheme have quite
some way to run although the terms will
change slightly they run right through
to
later in the autumn so there's some time
to come as yet thank you very much Alex
for your question I can turn to
Charlotte from Coventry and her question
is how many travel companies sir acting
unlawfully by not providing refunds to
customers following the cancellation of
holidays within reasonable time scales
what's the government doing to ensure
that people can get their money back
we look the first thing to say is it is
absolutely the case that holiday
companies can offer you either a voucher
or they can offer the money back
ultimately they have to offer the money
back if that is what you prefer
sometimes the holiday companies will say
we'll give you a voucher perhaps extra
times a user or even give you a greater
value 125 percent of your value or
something so you have the choice there
about what to do but ultimately it is
the responsibility of those travel
companies Charlotte to pay your money
back so you have all the redress that
exists through various different schemes
and things like Trading Standards would
be would be one it's very important the
travel companies do treat their
customers properly and I'll be doing
everything I can to encourage them to
make sure they pay back or offer a
voucher if that's what the individual
consumer wants but we can't have a
situation where they're just hanging on
to money and I will be very happy to
continue to follow up on that can we
turn now to Tom Bergeron Burrage of the
BBC top sector state thank you very much
on your policy to make face coverings
mandatory in England in two weeks time
are you expecting rail workers to please
sit and are you prepared to find people
if they don't cover their face and on
your controversial traveled quarantine
British Airways this afternoon is
refusing to take part in a roundtable
discussion with your cabinet colleagues
is that a sign that your government is
losing the confidence of UK aviation
thanks very much we'll look on the first
part of this question I'm going to ask
and Peter to answer it in just a second
what we're saying is essentially is it
will be a
of travel you need to be wearing a face
covering not a face mask a face covering
to use all forms of different public
transport in this country from the 15th
of June and we've worked quite closely
with for example the union's who have
been talking to to them about this
that's obviously their railway workers
that you're referring to and look I
think it's in everybody's interest to
make this work it protects everybody
when this happens as it so happens in
one of the reasons I asked Sir Peter
here today is he's had a very similar
experience of introducing new rules on
railways and Peter it's probably worth
me handing over to you thank you can't
so I was the cushion of Transport when
we introduced the ban on alcohol on
London's transport in 2008 and we were
asked the same question then the
question was would the staff be required
to enforce it what would the police do
and in the event those questions didn't
need to be answered we are expecting the
staff to wear face coverings themselves
that's obviously sensible and trade
unions have have very much supported
that but this is about people being
sensible people who use public transport
are profoundly sensible they do what
they're asked as long as what they're
asked is sensible and we're just saying
please wear them because it's good for
you and it's good for protecting
protecting others I'm I'm not expecting
a huge upsurge in in railway staff
having to police this I'm expecting
sensible passengers to do their to do
their duty and look up look after
themselves and others thanks very much
thanks very much Peter
Tom I should also add we're working very
actively to try to make sure that
there's plenty of support for passengers
and people will turn up and possibly
have forgotten and that sort of thing so
there'll be plenty of publicity about
this in advance that notices all over
stations and other transit areas we have
the British Transport Police Network
Rail Transport for London although will
be helpfully reminding people we
deployed as numbers start to come up
Peter deployed an extra three and a half
thousand people three and a half
thousand and total to remind passengers
and we're going to introduce also
volunteer journey makers who are
literally volunteers who also going to
assist
in reminding people about the the need
to wear a face covering when you travel
on public transport but I think that
overall we fully expect that we're
taking that the powers to do it changing
the rules do it we fully expect most
people want to do it because we all want
to defeat this disease you asked me a
secondary question it was about aviation
and the quarantine look I think most
people just recognize that having worked
as hard as we have and I announced in
those statistics that I was providing at
the beginning today the world can use
that the number of deaths has fallen to
the record-low since the start of lift
up of I think it was a hundred and
seventy-six today no one wants to go
back no one wants to return to the world
we were in and you know following on
from the scientific advice right at the
beginning the the scientists were clear
I asked the chief medical officer
exactly this question and he was clear
that there's not much point doing the
things on the borders that were now
doing with quarantine now because once
it's already here it's it's here and
indeed countries that did it they own
northern Italy America didn't see a
reduction in cases but as we come out of
this we absolutely must keep the numbers
down because we do not want you know
either people coming from abroad or even
Brits going abroad and coming back and
Bri you know bringing bringing this
nightmare back so it's a very sense of
very proportionate measure and as the
Prime Minister myself
the Home Secretary of have all said
we're also looking at averages and
travel corridors in order to to see how
that can be amended going forward but it
comes in on the 8th first of all just
just to be clear is it possible that
people will be fined if they do not
cover their face on public transport yes
so on public transport and to be clear
it's a condition of travel so you cannot
travel unless you're wearing they face
covering and we'll have people there to
remind you that we posters there to
remind you it would be quite a visual
thing that Peter is working on there
will also be other powers so ultimately
it could lead to fines and I very much
hope we won't be in that situation
because as I said before
although of course we'll take the powers
to do this why wouldn't people want to
do the right thing we're all desperate
to be able to get rid of coronavirus and
and move on with our our lifes it's in
everyone's advantage to do that and I
think Peters experience with TfL
indicated that was the case as well
absolutely I don't now recall how many
how many fines and offenses it was a
matter of great controversy when the
alcohol ban was introduced but actually
it went in without any real difficulty
at all and I and I think I'm expecting
my colleagues in there or in the public
transport industry you should be seeing
at every station entrance at every
station in Britain assigned very shortly
saying wear a face covering whether with
a graphic about face covering and we
know that passengers are sensible and
they'll do the sensible thing both for
themselves and others thank you very
much indeed thank you to you Tom
we'll move now to Harry Horton ITV
Yorkshire hi Harry Thank You Secretary
of State and we've been speaking to the
Bangladeshi community in Bradford today
and they've told us that they feel
they're being told that they're most at
risk from dying from coronavirus but
they aren't be giving any suggestions
about how they can stay safe we've known
for some time now that be AME
communities are more risk of dying from
coronavirus what specific advice does
the government have to be aiming the AME
communities to try and protect
themselves from dying and if there is no
specific advice why not
yeah well as you no doubt Webb PhD have
been looking into this and I think it's
Professor Fenton produced the report at
the end of end of the month and that
report sending out a couple of days but
actually my colleague whose equalities
Minister cami bay de NOC has already
taken up the mantle with this and will
be turning that report which looked at
the what the facts were and turning it
into actual recommendations so the first
thing was find out what was happening
and if you know that the data supports
it and then turn it into action and I
can actually tell you at this moment
Harry the full terms of reference for
that piece of work have just literally
been published so I suspect out that
we'll get a very comprehensive
of list of things that the people should
look at and more the government will be
doing as well and look I just want to
emphasize and then the fact that anyone
dies from this is is appalling and and
and the fact that we discover that be
AME communities are potentially at more
risk as well as other categories
including men obesity seems to be a big
factor all of these things are a huge
concern and we will get to the bottom of
it and have very practical
recommendations in the short term though
I think it's true to say really strict
social distancing maintaining the two
meters mm you know washing hands and
going back to that very first basic
message is so important and lastly as we
come to these stages of unlock being
very aware or alert as we say of your
surroundings so you don't put yourself
into positions of danger I think all of
those things would be absolutely key can
I turn to
Phil formerly from ITV Meriden hi Phil
good afternoon
how is Alok sharma doesn't want Sam to
him prove the folly of getting hundreds
of entries from all over the country
back at Westminster when they could be
working from home and if mr. Sharma does
test positive might the Prime Minister
have to self isolate again well I have
spoken to Alec within the last hour he's
doing financially he's working today but
just working from home as usual he's
awaiting his test result and on
Parliament the important thing to say is
the important thing to know actually is
that there are a whole series of pieces
of legislation including legislation
directly to help fight coronavirus and
going back to the previous question of
things that we need to be doing which
are passed through a process called
secondary legislation and those happen
in smaller Committees of MPs and there
are dozens of them dozens and dozens of
them we simply haven't been able to
parlance not being able to pass that
legislation and that in turn puts the
whole country at risk so it is not some
sort of well Parliament's comeback just
because it fancied it it's come back
because it needs to do things on behalf
of the nation however Parliament also
ensured that there was strict social
distancing measures in in place so
although involved in those votes earlier
in the week you were 2 metres apart at
all times and indeed I know it's also
the case that the the Prime Minister's
all always been 2 metres apart from Alex
Armour as well so obviously we wish him
well he's doing well at the moment I
happen to know because I've spoken to
him he awaits his results but because
social distancing has been followed in
the in the proper way I think with
Parliament it's absolutely right that it
is able to sit and do its job on behalf
of the nation and that's what MPs
themselves have voted for can I turn to
Sharon barber of BBC Look North hello
the government maintains that from the
outset that you threw a ring of steel
around care homes and loved ones could
no longer visit but they were then
pressured into taking in hospital
patients that hadn't been tested and now
in County Durham we have the highest
number of care home deaths in all of
England and Wales and across our region
the Northeast and Cumbria there are more
than 1300 care home residents who have
lost their lives who's responsible for
these deaths
it clearly first of all it's absolutely
heartbreaking I mean I think we probably
all know people now who've been affected
and the care homes are an interesting
situation because for example people
won't have been aware the care homes
procured their own PPE for example up
until this disaster most care homes are
privately owned
they're buying their own PPE the
government stepped in and has delivered
millions upon millions of pieces of PPE
to care homes in order to plug that gap
and it is of course I mean heartbreaking
that anybody has passed away
in a care home from coronavirus at all
we do know that this is the same issue
that everybody has been tackling and
that our rate of care home infection in
terms of the overall number of deaths
and care homes and the over a number of
combs affected in this country's being
lower than elsewhere which does not of
course change the fact that things like
clinical decisions made at certain times
about who should be who should leave
hospital will have been a an issue for
the medical experts at the time but if
you look at the changes that were made
in for example for guidance they were
made very early on whilst of course
everybody was still learning how this
disease was spreading and operated and
and you know as I often as often say you
know if we knew you know what we know
now and had all the capacity that we had
now that would be fantastic but I think
the camps have been incredible in their
response and of course there'd be time
to look back at everything in once we've
actually got through coronavirus itself
Sharon thank you very much indeed can I
turn to
a dominating Yeatman of Metro tonic
thank you can you tell me have you
secured agreement Scotland about the use
of masks on trains and public transport
or will person just be expected to put
them on as they cross the border and
secondly if I'm a given that most
holidaymakers will have to quarantine
for two weeks on their return shouldn't
the government be actively encouraging
us to holiday in the UK thank you well
on face coverings as I mentioned in my
comments Dominic it's a it's an England
measure we're speaking to the devolved
administration's and they can decide
whether they feel that's the right time
for them to do the same thing they may
well decide to do that that is their
call you raised of course the
interesting point of what happens some
you know those those trains which cross
borders and and the answer is it would
be that you would need to be wearing it
in England that's absolutely true and it
will be up to Scotland or where trains
cross to Wales Wales to provide their
own guidance usually what happens I can
say having the
through this process in quite a lot of
different ways over quite a long period
of time with this coronavirus is you end
up finding that actually after some
discussion typically the nations decide
to move together at roughly the same
time or on these things or at least a
few days apart so I don't think it will
turn out to be terribly confusing but we
have a devolved set up in in this
country with four nations who quite
rightly can follow their own rules and
that's the way things therefore operate
I don't there's anything useful
you can offer to this piece because it's
a chair of Network Rail so there's a
national aspect of this so I mean on our
discussions with both the staff and our
expectations the passengers probably
don't very we should of course respect
the sovereignty of the different nations
but I I would expect people who bought a
train in England to be wearing a mask
when they go in station and and on the
train and I would expect the passengers
to be wearing it when they go off
wherever they were and that would be
just sensible and it would be protective
of both them and other people and
courteous to did you want to come back
on that Dominic I was just going to ask
you that holidaying in the UK given that
holidaymakers had an abroad we're going
to have to quarantine for 14 days yeah
so so so look I mean clearly this year
because the rules are at the moment you
can't stay somewhere else overnight and
we now know we can travel we can travel
as far as we want to and and you can
even go and visit people in limited
numbers groups no more than six but you
still have to return home at night and
so that's obviously a limitation at the
moment for national holidays but we'll
have to see how the course of the of the
virus continues before we're able to
answer that and we also know some will
say Gnaeus ly the the current foreign
office advice is you can't travel unless
it's absolutely essential and so we know
that that's also in place at the moment
so sort of sadly to answer your question
at the moment we have to wait to see how
the
disease the path of this continues to -
continues to go and people have this in
no small way in their own hands measures
like wearing face coverings will assist
in a small way to fighting the rr8 and
and help us get out of this and make
holidays more of a possibility so look I
think it's always a fantastic idea to be
able to spend time in the UK I'm also
aware lots of people would like to go
away I'd love to be able to give you the
definitive answer but for that we need
to see exactly how the disease tracks
and how we get the the infection rate
down over a period of time Dominic
thanks very much I can turn to Darren's
late bulletin daily echo Dan thank you
now after their chaotic scenes on
crowded beaches like do eternal door
last weekend what message would you give
to people thinking you visiting the
coast this weekend and the local
authorities who were concerned about the
risks to public health and meanwhile we
have many hospitality businesses who are
worried about whether they can survive
this year and is there any industry
specific aid that the government can
give in tourist towns like for meth and
Weymouth in order to help them get back
on their feet yeah I mean you you you
your question literally reveals two
sides of the same coin and in a way
because on one hand people need to avoid
very crowded areas and to answer your
question on crowded beaches when we say
stay alert as as it says on here we
literally mean keep two metres away from
people don't endanger yourself and risk
it and risk this spreading and for us
all to throw away the hard work that
we've done so and the message could not
be clearer I suspect we might be helped
by the slightly cooler weather this
weekend but nonetheless the message
remains the same there's a further point
I should also highlight Darren Rich's
with regard to lifeguards they've not
been able to Train of course during this
period there are fewer lifeguards around
that means if you are at the coast and
you're in the sea then you're putting
yourself at more risk as well if you go
swimming in the sea so there are lots of
good sensible reasons not to go and
crowd out beaches and avoid very crowded
places and so the second half or the
other side of the coin question that you
asked on hospitality I mean
you know there's been an enormous
program a world-leading program I think
eight hundred and nineteen thousand
firms have benefited from over ten
billion pounds business grants and small
business grant fund and of course the
retail hospitality and leisure grant
fund so there's been a lot of money paid
to try to ensure in areas like
Bournemouth and elsewhere that those
companies can carry on going
we still have things like the furlough
scheme and as we come out of this attach
to the question before which I'm afraid
is of course the question when and I
can't answer that exactly when will be
people be able to travel for tourism and
we can't answer that until we know the
path of the of the virus but we have
stood behind companies and and and
places like town at Bournemouth will
intend to carry on and doing so but the
best way we can all do that is to defeat
the virus by following the rules so your
question is very wise because it touches
both sides of the same problem that
we're trying to resolve Darren thanks
very much can I go to the pool Geeta
East Anglia Daily Times but afternoon
thank you thank you for inviting me
Secretary of State can I follow on from
Sharon's question earlier Suffolk has
seen a greater death toll in care homes
than many neighbouring and large
counties we've had a hundred and fifty
two deaths in 70% of care homes in
Ipswich and mid Suffolk of suffer
decoded outbreak why were hospital
patients discharged into care homes only
being tested from mid April
why has the guidance only recently
changed to mean patients are no longer
being sent to homes before receiving
their test results and why won't the NHS
risen release a trust level breakdown of
patients discharged to homes without
tests thank you very much Paul
look there's been a lot of things said
about care homes but actually when you
look back at the history of when rules
were changed or when the guidance was
changed the a lot of these changes took
place quite early
and there been a lot of steps taken for
example the 600 million pound package to
assist care homes I think that's on top
of 3.6 billion pounds that's gone to
local authorities some of which is also
intended for Social Care and I said in
response to a shout of course it is
quite right that you will always want to
go back and sort of track this backwards
and see what were the medical can do
decisions that were taken when and and
why but to put this into sort of context
I know that it's the case that the
majority of care homes although not as
you just pointed out in the example you
just gave but nationwide
do not have any cases are covert at all
but I think of course it's of particular
interest why it is that in some areas
and I think you mentioned a figure of 60
or 70% why it is in some areas those
numbers have come up differently so of
course there will be questions to be
looked at and reviewed and you know I
noticed that overall what's happened is
because we've managed to build hospital
capacity of course we had the
Nightingale hospitals and those things
because we managed to build hospital
capacity we didn't end up in this
country as we saw and feared elsewhere
of other places where hospital beds and
the ability to have ventilators and the
rest of it we're running out which is
which is which is a very good thing and
that has been part of what's helped us
have a much lower level of overall death
coming from care homes than in in Europe
for example as the average but it you
know these are these are definitely
perfectly legitimate questions
particularly the regional variation on
those and I know that my colleagues in
health and elsewhere will be wanting to
get to the bottom of all those questions
and why there should be regional
variations in them as well can we turn
to Paul Faulkner of the Lancashire
Evening Post please thank you good
afternoon your colleague the health
secretary it said last week that council
public health bosses would have a
crucial role to play in deciding whether
to impose and
local lockdown restrictions should they
ever become necessary that was actually
on the same day that Lancashire's
director of public health advise schools
in the county that he didn't feel that
it was yet safe for them to reopen
contrary of course to the government's
own advice
at that point doesn't that show that it
would actually make more sense to
officially empower these local experts
to make their own decisions about the
easing of lockdown in the first place in
the hope that they don't locally then
avoided a second spike in cases and the
very need to reimpose restrictions
further down the line and just in the
absence of a scientist on the panel
today but this second question does
because across your own transport brief
do you expect tourist destinations such
as black balls to face a particular
challenge in keeping the virus in check
as of when lockdown measures are further
lifted and there's the government
planning any targeted help for tourist
hotspots to assist them in their
recovery hmm we'll look possible on
local decision-making imagine there's
clearly you know a decision that needs
to be always kept in mind between the
extent to which you say things are for
local decisions and the extent to which
you have a clear national message but it
says you know this is the date when X or
Y is is going to happen and in the end
when I talk to the scientists which I've
done on this case actually and
understood AO it is it the case that in
one particular location schools aren't
ready to go back whereas in another
location that they are the difficulty is
having sufficient test data to
understand in one particular location
wherever that's a justifiable decision
or not so I think to answer your
question in the end you do have to have
a national picture of it and make those
decisions on a nation level as we've
done in the Four Nations it is of course
also true and perfectly proper that
people may say are we think we've got a
particular issue here and we'll delay by
a week which i think is the case that
you refer to I mean that's but that's
also perfectly understandable but I
think on balance you've got to have a
national message otherwise people
watching this and doing everything else
will be confused why you know
non-central shops in other cases to take
the
unlocking on the 15th if conditions
allow would be odd if that was taking
place in one town but not in another in
the very short term and then on your
your final point about Blackpool tourist
destination other tourist destinations
across the country as I as I mentioned
in my response to Darren Slade at
Bournemouth and we have been extremely
concerned about all the organization's
businesses at the forefront of tackling
Cove at 19 it's been an absolute record
time for everybody but know none more so
than those in the hospitality sector and
that's why the kind of levels of support
running into tens of billions of pounds
and now that I was outlining before have
been so extreme to try to support them I
in order to have fully answer your
question we have to know what the path
of this virus is going forward because
that's the only way we'll know the
extent and when people will be able to
move around more freely and perhaps even
stay overnight and therefore open up the
British hospitality sector and I have to
return to the point that everybody needs
to play their part and I think there's a
danger particular as we go through these
unlock phases that people kind of start
to think well that's right we're now
able to do this this and this and sort
of forget becomes sort of a bad you know
nightmare from the spring it's not it's
still very much with us and we
absolutely have to focus on beating it
the government will always try to do
whatever it can to stand by all
organizations of hospitality businesses
in particular but we need people's help
we need people's help in order to defeat
this thing once and for all which
remains as much as a big national effort
now as it did when we very first started
thank you very much
Paul thank you to everyone and thank you
very much to Peter that concludes
today's press conference
[Music]
see the headlines as they happen and
watch BBC News live in the app and get
the full story with BBC door co dot UK
forward slash news follow the story for
all the latest with BBC News